---
layout: post
title: "Blog 7: Installing and Configuring Snort"
---

Since we dabbled a bit into the realm of network vulnerability scanning, I thought it would be fitting to learn about a local monitoring tool. More specifically, I'll be covering an Intrusion Detection System (IDS for short). The IDS is called Snort. For this blog post, I'll be using Ubuntu, although you can use it for any Linux distro (be aware of which package manager your distro uses).

Getting started is pretty simple. Enter the following command to start the installation process:
    ```console
		$ sudo apt-get install nikto
		```

There is a chance that you will be greeted with a purple "Package Configuration" screen at some point during the installation. This will ask you to specify which network interface you want Snort to listen in on. The default value will be "eth0", but yours may differ. For simplicity's sake, let's just take the default network interface that your Linux machine is using to access the public internet. A simple "ifconfig" will list all of your interfaces, as well as the IP's that are associated with them. In my case, I want to use the wifi adapter that the system is using, and this one happens to be "wifi0".

You will then need to use CIDR notation to enter the address range for your local network. This may vary for you, so use Wikipedia if you aren't terribly familiar with CIDR notation, and make sure that your results are consistent with the IP address range on your network. After you're done, press ENTER.

As a general rule, you should open the "snort.conf" configuration file and make a small change. Open "/etc/snort/snort.conf", navigate to "ipvar HOME_NET any", and change "any" to the IP address of the machine you are trying to protect (the ip of the interface you are using). Then you can test out your configuration with:

		```console
		$ sudo snort -A console -i <YOUR INTERFACE> -c /etc/snort/snort.conf
		```

Next blog entry will be a little more in depth. At the moment I only have access to my WSL Ubuntu machine, and apparently that does not play very well with Snort. We will go over how to use Snort next week.
